Hey everyone, welcome back.
So if you were left a little bit confused from the last
things we talked about, with the epics, and spec
sheets, user stories, and acceptance criteria, I'm going to
show you a real life example here inside a tool called Jira.
And this is not the only tool you can use.
In fact, I don't recommend it unless you
work at a very large company,
but it is very common at large companies.
You can also use a whole bunch of other tools we'll talk about,
but I'll show you in Jira because this is kind of an industry standard.
So let's get into it.
Let's go down to my screen and I'll show you the real life example.
All right.
So what we have here is a screen that is inside of a
project I've created, and I'm going to pretend that
this project inside of Jira is basically the project that
my team owns. I'm a product manager and I
lead a product team, and this is the project my team owns.
And so what you can see here is, this is what is
called - I'll expand this so you can see this better - it's called the backlog, and the backlog is merely just a place that we
hold things that we plan to do later,
but we're not working on quite yet.
If you remember, we do sprints in the Scrum model,
so the stuff that we're working on right now,
it goes into the sprint and we start working on it,
and then, when the sprint is over, we see what we got
done and what we didn't, and we add more stuff from
the backlog to the next sprint, and that's how we work.
The backlog is just a place to hold stuff that you plan to do.
So what I've got here is an empty sprint at the top,
and then here I've got my backlog.
And over here on the left side you see the epics.
So, like I said, most project management software,
like Pivotal Tracker or Jira, they're going to have
places for epics, and in other ones you might just
have to create some sort of structure yourself.
But here, you can see that I have selected all issues,
and that's basically all of the things in my backlog,
all of the user stories, basically, that I want to do,
but may or may not already be inside of an epic.
And then here we have one epic, which
we've called the "Direct Message Photos"
version 1, and then I've got another one here that's a technical epic that's not user facing, and it's "Migrate User Database."
We can see here, in the backlog, we've got 4 tickets here
that are have user stories inside of them, that
belong to this epic, and I can click on this
and it will only show those.
And then, below those, I've got the stories and
the tickets for migrating the user database.
So let's go ahead and add a couple of these things to our sprint,
or pretend like we're going to start a sprint, basically.
So we know that we're going to work on this epic.
We're going to try to implement direct messaging photos,
we're going to do that, and we're going to also be able,
we also want users to be able to cancel a photo
being sent and being transferred,
and then there's some other things here.
Okay.
Users can maybe upload the photos from a URL and
they can also upload from copy and pasting, but that's
going to take some more effort,
so we're actually considering moving that to maybe
another epic where it's the "Direct Message Photos"
version 2, or it's our second phase,
but for our minimum viable product, we just want to
allow people to upload photos from their computer,
so that's what we'll start with.
I'm also going to add maybe the first phase or the first
ticket here from our migrating the user database
epic into our sprints, because maybe we have two
engineers that are working on the photo
in direct messages, and another engineer is
working on migrating this database.
So what happens is we've got our sprint loaded up here
and we click "Start Sprint" and it says, how long
is the sprint, because not all companies use two weeks
sprints, but it does pre-fill with two weeks. You
can choose from other options here too. We'll click "Start,"
and this brings us to the "Active sprints" area,
so you can see we have items here that are "to do,"
then we have "in progress," then we have "done."
And we're going to start.
Let's pretend like we're an engineer
and we're working on stuff.
What's going to happen is they're going to say "Alright, I'm working on this, now it's in progress" and eventually move it to "done."
But what are they actually working on?
Let's move this back here and let's click on this first item.
You can see that it's part of an epic here, which is
the "Direct Message Photos," and I will just
go in... Jira is a little complex, so bear with me here,
this is why not many people like it, but we'll go into the
more details for this actual ticket.
So inside of it, we can see that this is the ticket, and
the ticket is "Send photos through direct message."
Inside, we've got a user story.
So "As a user, I want to be able to send pictures in a
direct message by clicking the photo sharing button,
so that I can share my favorite photos with friends."
And then we have those acceptance criteria we talked about.
So "Given I'm a user and I click the 'add picture' button
in the direct message, I'm presented with a pop
up window to choose the file I can upload, I can submit it with the upload button, and then I see a preview of the uploaded image.
This is also a place you can see, or we've got
a couple, we've got a wireframe in here, right?
So this is where we would implement or put in the
wireframes or mocks, where it shows that a designer
has said "Okay, this thing is this many pixels
wide and this many pixels tall."
So those go into the actual user stories themselves.
But I want to show you one more thing, and that is
because this is a ticket, it has a user story in it,
it's part of an epic. So what does that epic look like?
Well, we can click here and go to the actual epic itself.
And this is just the inside of that epic that
we saw on the backlog screen earlier.
Basically, it has those sections that I was talking about,
so we have an introduction, and it's like, okay,
this feature is going to allow users to send photos
to each other through the direct message.
It says "Our research shows that 80% of people
would use this, and we tested it with people, and
user tests, and they really liked our designs,
and basically we say "Okay, ideally, in the future we
want to be able to share animated GIFs as photos as
well and maybe paste photos from the clipboard,
but for this MVP, we're only going to allow uploading
from a device." That's just to kind of get the
base level in there without doing too much work,
yet still providing some functionality for the users.
Notice that we also are saying "We expect this functionality
to increase the number of messages sent
per user by 15% on average,
and, you know, this results in a 4% time in app for each user
over the course of a week, but it increases by 4%.
This is all stuff that you, as a product manager, are
responsible for figuring out ahead of time using
data and then writing in here in the epics.
So then we've got the product requirements.
Okay, "User can initiate a photo message
from the message window."
"User can select a photo from their own device or a connected device." "User can preview an image before sending."
We want users to be able to send very high resolution images.
This is all stuff that you're going to think, okay,
as a product manager, "According to data,
this is what we're going to need in terms of functionality
here for this to be successful through all
the testing, and user interviews we've done, and that sort of thing."
And then you and the designer work on the design
requirements, but a lot of it comes from the designer.
They're saying "We should store the photos on our servers,
so that the users can always see these pictures,
even if they go to, like, another computer.
They want to look at the old pictures they sent."
And this is something that UI designers and UX designers,
they're thinking about the user experience,
So they're going to say things like this, like, it's
important for them to see it in multiple locations
because they think that is important
as a UX designer, and that is up to them.
So then we have, okay, maximum photo size
should be 5000 by 5000 pixels,
the designer thinks that's very important.
Previews should be this size,
and then also they're thinking about the actual experience.
So once the user successfully uploads,
then we show a success indicator. And then
we have the engineering requirements.
So the engineers have looked at this with us, at the epic spec,
and we've talked to them about all this functionality.
They've read the design requirements,
and they come in and they write some additions.
They're like, "Okay, for this we're going to need a
photo database, because we don't have one yet.
It's going to be able to need to scale to 100 million images,
with a maximum file size of 10 MP per image."
So they're thinking ahead in terms of how much traffic
they can support and if it's scalable. "We're going
to need to pull user IDs from the user profile
table in order to associate that message,
and that photo, and that user together, and then they're going to ensure that the content delivery network is optimized for this,
so we can get pictures to people over in Europe really quickly.
So on and so forth. You understand just by going through this. And then, you see, we also have some wires in here.
And usually, this is, you know, some of the earlier
wires, and then, in the actual tickets themselves,
we've got the very specific wires around, okay,
the pixel widths and all that, like I mentioned before.
And then, Jira allows you to comment down here, and it shows you the issues - they call it issues or tickets - in the epic.
Okay, so really quick, let's recap on this.
I'm going to go back to the work board. This is,
we're in a sprint, and this is what's going on, but we'll
start off in the backlog.
We have added stuff to this sprint. The sprint is right here,
the backlog is right here, this is stuff we're
doing in the next sprint, or the one after, or just down the way.
And then, you can also re-prioritize stuff on the backlog
based on, you know, things that happen, like, is
this now more important than this? And this is something
that you as a product manager are also responsible
for, is the prioritization. We're going to talk about that later,
but you can do that in most project management software.
So then, once we're in the sprint, we can go to the
sprint that is currently active, and we've got "to do,"
"in progress," and "done." The engineers
come in here, they click this,
They're like, "Okay, what is this?"
Okay, here is the user story, here's the acceptance
criteria, and they're like "Alright."
And they put it "in progress," and they start
coding, and then they go to "done."
And, in some cases, in some companies you'll even
have a step before "done" that is called QA or testing.
QA stands for quality assurance,
and this is sometimes where engineers move stuff
before it is sort of approved, and that's usually the
phase when product managers and designers will go
through the acceptance criteria and literally use
a test version on a test device or a test website and say,
"Okay, is all this stuff working like we said it would?"
And then, they go "Okay, it is approved" and then they move it
to "done." And then, after the two weeks, you should
be done with all of the things that you have in your sprint.
So that is really it.
That's an overview of typically what an epic looks like,
it's just kind of a container, a grouping of stuff,
but you have an epic spec with it, or a requirements
document that tells everybody about why you're doing
this, what you're expecting,
and then you've got the requirements from the engineers
and designers, and then you've got the tickets
that contain those user stories and acceptance criteria.
All this stuff combined together, it makes the actual
day to day workflow of engineering and product
management together in a product team at a tech company.
All right, everyone.
I will see you in the next lecture.